---
title: episode ten
nav_order: 10
layout: default
---

# EP 10: HOME IS THE PLACE YOU ESCAPE

> the town is at its breaking point. there’s a tremor in the air, discordant and expecting. the antler god knows they’re fighting against it. they can hear it in the woods, gnashing its teeth in fury. the animals it controls snarling and biting and circling the cave like it wants to keep them out. this is their chance, likely their only chance, to put aside their differences. to get rid of the antler god. to save themselves. to free themselves from the hold this town has on them. how it kept them in place, stagnating. refusing to let them live. and that is something the antler god cannot allow.

# PLOT PROGRESSION SCRIPTS

**main cast:** everyone

## SCRIBBLE

**starring:** order of the rabbits

> the book is gone, but they still need to push themselves forward. cottontail recalls those old rows, deep in the library where they found black sheep’s old lineage, so the group returns to research. it’s sketched into the back cover of an old almanac angora finds, an image of a knife plunged into the chest of an antler god. but the one holding the other end of it is a mirror copy of the antler god itself.
>
> _key takeaway: your muses should discover that you must have the antler god kill itself and that this is viable by having black sheep wield the knife, as the mo_

## ANTLER SHED

**starring:** of the forest

> it’s elk who tells them about their vision. well, elk tells magpie and lynx, and then magpie writes it down for bat in an attempt to keep the antler god from hearing. it’s a struggle to unwind their own desires from the antler god, but they decide to push through the haze of its control - try to anyway - and follow the directions that starling gave on how to find the door through the connecting tunnel at daesan temple. they hold their antler shards in white knuckled fists and wait for the others to arrive. when everyone’s collected in the damp of the tunnel they fit their antler shards into the door and watch as the iron-hinged monstrosity swings inward to reveal a small room with a still beating heart on a slab of stone marked up in runes. something the villagers of old never destroyed out of their own selfishness, to harvest the creature’s power.

## KEEP OUT

**starring:** invasive species

> they split up - some near the mouth of the cave underneath the mirror that snake strung up like a ward. some to keep watch at the back of the tunnels with armfuls of flowers that fieldmouse helped collect, the ones it knows the antler god is averse to. the harried god tries to pass through the tunnels first, a screeching and angry thing as it tries to cross through the ropes of flowers hung in its path. when they meet its eyes across the divide, it’s better than anything they’ve felt over the past year. there’s a certain rush that overpowers the fear, when your barriers hold strong. the looming, hulking thing returns to the mouth of the cave, its dark gaze boring into the collected guardians, the so-called invasives now armed with scant flowers and small mirrors. suddenly such a pitiful seeming attempt in the face of something unspeakable and ancient. and they all ignore the way it mimics lost loved ones, their friend, the startled cries of pain it pretends to let out in voices that don’t belong to it. or at least, they try to ignore it.

## THROUGH THE HEART

**starring:** the old god's flock

> they enter the room together, armed with most of their heirlooms, the locket still hanging in the door. dove holds their phone at the ready alongside their pocketwatch, ready to call out when the clock hits three in the morning. stag hands their knife off to black sheep with the theory that the order of the rabbits told them still fresh in their mind. it’s doe that senses something off on the other side of the door, who slams it shut and holds it in place as the antler god redoubles its control over the sacrifices and tries to send them in after the heart. the others rush to help as dove calls out “now!” and black sheep stands there for a moment, fighting the control of the antler god as it begs them to pick up the heart. to bring it back to them. they must make a choice.
>
> DO YOU ...
> **pick it up** (we assumed most people would stab at this point and didn't prewrite this option)
>
> **stab the heart**
>
> > you do your best to shake off the antler god’s hold over you, after all, it doesn’t control you entirely. not like the other sacrifices. your hand tremors despite your resolve, and you grip your wrist with your free hand to help drive it down, to plunge it into the heart of the antler god. you hear a shrill shriek, everyone does. so loud it feels like the earth is trembling. the heart itself starts to curdle, to shift colors into something purple, and then bracken, and then stone-like and small. you feel the presence of the creature leeching out of you, detangling itself from your soul. the pieces of you it punctured through feel empty where it receded. hollow. it’s dead, and so is that piece of you.
